Today, I'm training with IFBB Pro
classic physique Danilo. And what are
you training today? Back. Some back.
You're going to train some back. Um I'm
going to do light stuff in the
background, but today is about you. I
want to see how a bodybuilder trains to
build his back. Now, give us a bit of a
plan for today. So, we are going to
deadlift today. We're going to do some
conventional deadlifts, but I'm going to
start off with cable pull overs. That'll
be my first technical exercise. It's
going to be more so to warm my lats up
to prime for deadlifts.
>> We'll move into deadlifts as the main
compound movement. And then after that,
we'll go into a little bit of rows and
some pull downs to finish off.
>> Cool. So, something that I love about
this is the difference between the way
that I would do deadlifts to Danilo. I
do deadlifts on my lower body day or I
even say I do deadlifts on deadlift day.
>> Mhm. Right? Now, you're training back
and you're doing deadlifts on back day.
So, this is a really common question
that I get asked is do you do deadlifts
on lower body day or upper body day? Um
as I said, for me it's kind of lower
body, but it's deadlift day. And you're
doing it to build your back. So, what
type of deadlift are you going to be
doing? I'll do more conventional today.
If I ever do them on leg days, it's
where I do more of a stiff leg or I do
an RDL. I got you. Okay, so when you do
a conventional deadlift, that is because
you're developing upper back or you get
a lot back.
>> Yeah, I get a lot more back involved
doing a conventional.
>> Okay. And is there a a muscle in
particular that you're working towards
with the deadlift? Just overall back
thickness and traps too. Standing at the
top. Yeah, you know, I
for me, I would, but it's like of course
I would. I'm a strength athlete. It's my
bias. I want to have a big deadlift. But
a lot of bodybuilders will say deadlift
is not a good exercise for a
bodybuilder.
>> They would. Yet you're a pro and you
deadlift.
>> What gives? I personally I love
deadlifting. I think it's a great
movement. I think it's very fun. First
off, just from a a standpoint of what
you like to lift, but I do think it's a
good base for any beginners to start off
with cuz I deadlifted for the first
couple years of when I got into
bodybuilding and it put on a lot of
muscle very quickly.
>> Yeah. It's a full rounded movement,
especially if you're doing conventional,
and I think it's a I think everybody
should try them if they haven't, and it
can be very good to to add in a program.
So, of course, you're preaching to the
choir. I think that everyone should
deadlift, but you know, my bias is
strength and functionality. And I say
when I'm training a beginner, teaching a
bend pattern I believe is a fundamental
movement pattern.
>> It is. Um and then you've just got so
many people with different opinions, and
one of my opinions is you should do what
you enjoy.
>> Absolutely. So, as a bodybuilder, not
everyone Not everyone deadlifts as
bodybuilders, um but some of them don't
think that you can't do it if you're a
bodybuilder. So,
we're going to see your technique as
well. So, once again, we did a bench
press session yesterday, and something
that I did with Danilo was I showed him
my technique and he showed me his
technique, and we both played around.
So, what I'm going to do is not even
tell you what my technique is. Uh
obviously, you do them well. Right. Um
so, you're going to tell us how you do
it. Perfect.
>> And then maybe I'll see how you do it
and see if there's a few tips that I can
give you because I do like to teach
people how to deadlift, but at the same
time, I want you to teach me a few
things. Good man. Let's get Let's get
into it. I personally like doing cable
just cuz of the resistance profile on
it, but if you have a lat pull down
machine, the one that Dorian pull over
during the '80s always used that one. I
do like that one a lot, but I just
prefer cable cuz of the the resistance
profile is a little bit different than
dumbbell. Oh, my traps are actually
sore.
I like how you did that so much that I'm
going to do it too. Perfect. So, can you
give me some pointers? What are we
looking to do? Yes, so with this I'm
letting the weight pull me forward. It's
going to pull your lats, and then as you
come up, you're picking yourself up. How
much do I stand? Uh 45 to 60 degrees.
That's perfect, yeah. So, Just let the
weight bring you forward.
>> were almost kind of 90 degrees type of
thing.
>> the weight Let the weight bring you
forward.
>> the lats out and then stand a little
bit. Yep.
And what rep range are you doing here?
10 to 12.
So, for anyone that might ask about the
technique of doing it,
letting the weight just bring you
forward is going to stretch your lats a
little bit more, and then as we're
pulling up, it's going to take that
pressure off of your shoulder versus
staying here the whole time
and trying to drive your hands to your
hips.
>> So, that's Yeah, right. So, that kind of
doesn't feel like it hits the spot,
right? But standing up here feels
>> a a much bigger contraction in the lats
when I'm doing this. So, is lats the
target muscles for this
>> Main focus, yes.
>> Yeah. Absolutely.
And these you can do with so many grips.
You can do straight bar. You can use
the ropes. There's so many different
handles you can use.
>> So, the rope was already set on this. Is
that what you would have cho-
I like using the rope just cuz I can
move it around a little bit more. A
straight bar, you're just going to be in
more of a fixed position.
Nice. Which I think I mean, that depends
on stability and how advanced someone is
at training. Mhm. Let's say if I had
someone that was a beginner doing these,
I'd probably have them use a straight
bar. Yeah. Cuz they're not like this.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. They don't have the
options to move around, yeah.
So, I'm doing uh no timer here. We're
just going you go, I go, you go, I go.
Yes. Which kind of is the right amount
of rest between your sets anyway, right?
>> Yeah. It feels It's around that 60 to 90
second rest time.
That feels like a very deep contraction
in my lats. You get a little bit of a
>> an exercise I'm unfamiliar with, so
maybe that's why it feels like it's a
harder contraction maybe than what it
feel for you, but I definitely don't
feel this usually when I'm doing my
normal rows or anything. No, no. I I
think it's a great movement. It's
you can get such a
your range of motion on this can be a
lot greater than
you know, just a standard lat pull down.
I still do pull downs, but I like these
just cuz you can get
a very good stretch in your lats.
>> Yeah, I feel that. And you go up every
set?
Yeah, I'll go up one one pin every
single set, especially if I'm doing
these before deadlifts. I'm not taking
these to
100% failure.
>> Yeah. Maybe leaving two reps in reserve
or so.
>> So, it's still kind of a warm up for
your deadlift.
>> Yes. Nice. Yes, so if I'm doing these
before deadlifts, it's more of a warm
up. If I'm not If I don't have
deadlifts, then this will be one of my
main movements where I'll take it
more towards failure on each set. So,
I'll do
if you guys hear anyone ever talk about
feeder sets,
it's just to feel the weight. I'll do a
couple of them before my actual working
set just to get my body used to the
amount of weight that I'm doing.
And in terms of the weight,
ideally, I'd like to go up each set, but
working within that rep range if I'm
doing, you know, 10 to 15. My first set,
if I hit 15, I know I may might have
went a little bit too light, so I'll go
up maybe an extra pin or two, and then
I'll gauge
if I'm going to go up the next set
depending on what I did for my reps. If
I'm at the bottom of that rep range,
I'll do that weight again for the second
set to see if I can match it, and then
if that's the case, I'll keep it the
same or I might go up one more pin to
see if I can go a little bit heavier,
but match the same rep range. Overall
progressive overload cuz there's so many
different ways you can do it with. Reps
with weight, with tempo, and that's why
it's important to
periodize your training.
As we hear that quite quite frequently.
That's about three sets?
Three. Yeah, do a fourth one? Yep. I
feel pumped in my lats, which is nice.
So, yesterday when I did the upper body
session, my normal session was normally
push and pull. So, I'll do a a press and
then I'll super set with a a row or a
pull down.
Uh but when I was training with Danilo,
we just did all the pushing muscles, so
we did
We did bench press, then we did flies,
and then we did some lateral raises, and
that was the session, which means I
didn't do my back. So, today
I am doing just lats, so I feel like
it's a pretty easy session
compared to what I would normally do,
which is nice.
All right, I'll do one more set. Okay,
Danilo, before you do deadlifts,
I was just talking about my training
about how I normally do push and pull in
the same day, and I kind of super set
between the two. So, yesterday I kind of
followed your lead, and we just did the
push muscles, and today you're doing
pull. So, I know you're on holidays and
all that, but what is your typical
split? Usually, it's a modified push
pull legs. So, I'll start the week off
on Monday with legs. How many days a
week? Let's start with that.
>> Five. Five days a week. Right, so day
one, that'll be a posterior focus leg
day. Yeah. And then second is a push
day. So, Tuesday I'll do chest,
shoulders, triceps. Wednesday's rest.
Thursday will be my pull day. Yeah. So,
back and biceps. Yeah. Friday is an all
round leg day, and then Saturday is
actually a full upper body. Okay.
>> So, I'll do chest and back, and I'll do
shoulders and arms. So, your posterior
focus lower body day, no quadriceps?
I'll finish off on leg extensions. I add
a little bit in, yes.
>> Okay. And then on your other full lower
body day, you're doing quadriceps and
obviously hamstrings as well.
>> Okay, so you're pretty much doing How
many times per week per body part?
Pretty much two times a week. Two times
per week per body part. Okay, I like
that split. It's a good way to hit
everything evenly, but also have enough
space to recover. Totally. Yeah, sounds
like it's spread out very evenly. I'm
just trying to think for me for my
squats and deadlifts, they interfere
with each other a lot. And so like I
That's why I'm not going to deadlift
today. I deadlifted on Monday. Today's
Wednesday. So when Danila said you're
going to deadlift with me, my answer was
absolutely not.
I'm just going to do all of the other
upper back stuff. So show me how you
deadlift. Let's do it.
Nice.
In my opinion, stance is a little bit
wider and his grip is a little bit wider
than normal. However,
his job as a bodybuilder isn't to be as
efficient as possible. When I bring
people stance in and grip in, it's so
that they travel along a lesser
distance. Having the arms straight down
means your arms are longer and it's more
efficient. Now a bodybuilder doesn't
really care about efficiency. It's kind
of like stimulating the muscle. So in my
opinion, I'd look at that and say that's
that's good. Okay. Yeah, like if your
hips are in the right position, your
knees in the right position and
everything. I quite like that. A little
bit closer if you want to go.
>> No, look, I don't think you should. I
think I would. So a lot of the times I
say things like bring your stance in,
that's for efficiency. Right. That's And
so efficiency means less input, more
output.
>> Exactly. Which means it's not as
stimulating for muscle growth to be more
efficient.
>> Right.
So when it's comes to bodybuilding, you
want to intentionally increase the range
of motion sometimes, right? But with
that, I think in my opinion, I'm I don't
want to change you today. Okay. want to
learn how you would do it to stimulate
muscle growth. And uh it looks like
you're doing very similar things to what
I would do. Now, rep range. That's a
warm-up, we don't count that. What reps
are you going to be working towards
today? I do eight to 10 and maybe a
little bit lighter on reps. Do you use
straps? Yes, I have them. I like using
them for
obviously any any heavy deadlifts.
Just cuz it helps keep your grip a
little bit more, but especially with
doing back exercises, like I said to I
had a big problem when I first started
bodybuilding
to where I used a lot of my biceps, and
that's why I had big arms and just no
back. And it didn't look right. So now I
started using
straps just to help take my biceps out
of any movement, but especially for
deadlifts because
grip can slip a little bit, but that bar
has a really good knurling on it. So if
you have a really good bar and you have
chalk, you might not need straps. I just
like to use them as a safety net to have
them.
[Music]
[Applause]
You know, I'm even looking at it as a
powerlifter and I was saying that he'd
have a you know, wider stance than I'd
normally suggest, but even there it's
the same. It just looks exactly how I
would do it as a powerlifter. Really?
Yeah, which is nice for me to know that
you know, like a lot of the times as a
powerlifting coach, I work with
bodybuilders and they're like, "Oh, you
know, how do you think I should do
this?" And I always say, "You know what?
I'm a I'm a powerlifter, so it probably
doesn't relate to you that well." Cuz I
always think a bodybuilder looks at what
I do and thinks that has nothing that's
probably going to do bad things for me
or whatever it is, but it's often quite
refreshing to see these are good
exercises for bodybuilders, for
everyone. It's a bend pattern. Bending
over and picking stuff up off the ground
makes you strong firstly, but secondly,
for my own muscularity, I'm not the best
deadlifter. I'm a great bencher. I've
got shorter arms, which is a great
advantage for benching cuz I don't have
to travel as far. But with a deadlift,
shorter arms is a disadvantage. You have
to travel a lot further. So as a
powerlifter, my squats and and bench
presses were really, really good, but my
deadlift was always my weakest link. And
because of that, I didn't enjoy it as
much, right? So therefore, I neglected
it. So I'd go through a lot of phases
where I'd do lots of squats and I'd kind
of like just half-ass my deadlift
workout. And then I'd look at my
physique in the mirror and often think,
"You know, my traps are shrinking."
Yeah. And um so that was kind of one of
my favorite exercises to build traps
actually. So it's like, you know, I work
with the strongest deadlifter in the
world and that's Thor Björnsson, in case
you didn't realize. His His traps are
massive.
>> Yes. Right? And it's like, "What do you
do for traps?" He actually doesn't do
traps. He He deadlifts. So tell me, what
muscles on your body would you say that
this benefits most?
If I'm doing conventional,
traps for sure for sure. And then I'd
say it's equal along my whole posterior
cuz I'm getting a little bit of glute,
I'm getting a little bit of hamstring,
and I am getting a little bit within my
back through out my lats.
But the most especially when it's heavy
is when you are at the top, your traps
do take a lot of that load. It's just
like doing a It's like doing a farmer's
carry except without walking with the
Yeah.
Yeah, good. So bodybuilders out there,
start deadlifting. Start deadlifting.
Nice.
Very smooth. Can I ask you a question?
I've heard
that squats and deadlifts thicken your
core. Mhm. What's your opinion on that?
I don't think they thicken your core. I
think they build a stronger abdominal
wall. And I think especially for someone
like Mitch for example,
he's he doesn't train abs anymore. Who's
Mitch? Mitch Little. Mitch Little, yes.
Yeah, right. Okay. He doesn't train abs
He hasn't trained abs in years.
Obviously he does calisthenics. Yep. So
he does have He has a lot of core
strength,
but he has deadlifted quite a bit,
squatted quite a bit, and he still
continues to do those things which
indirectly work your core.
>> Yep.
And I think anyone that says they
thicken it,
I don't really think that's true. Now,
if you
do direct oblique training, your waist
is going to look bigger because you're
building that muscle, but if you get if
you build your lats, build your
shoulders more, it's going to make your
waist appear small. Okay. So
let's talk a little bit about core
training now that we're on that topic.
>> Okay. As a bodybuilder, do you train
your core? Yes. What are the your
favorite exercises and what are you
trying to achieve?
>> I do more straight movements. I want to
get as much spinal flexion as I can.
Yep. So hanging leg raises are the best.
If we do The The target there is rectus
abdominis. So that's the six-pack
muscles. Yep. So leg raises. Mhm. I'll
do leg raises, and then if there's a
good crunch machine to do, I'll set the
seat as low as I can
so I can get as much of that spinal
flexion as I
>> get the stretch as well cuz you see a
lot of people they'll sit down and just
do this. Laying Laying on your back is
just the shortened position.
>> Correct. So you like to get the
lengthened as well. Good.
>> Or on a decline bench as well. Oh yeah.
Doing decline sit-ups?
>> Yeah, yeah. I'll stretch my arms as far
back as I can
>> Nice. and come up cuz a lot of the time
you see people in the gym, like I said,
they'll sit down and they just Yeah. do
this and they think it's going to build
your abs and
>> True. if you can get try and get as much
spinal flexion as you And And how many
times you training that? Twice. Twice a
week. Do you do obliques as well? I used
to, but then that's when I was like,
"Oh, my waist looks bigger even though
it wasn't getting bigger."
I already had pretty developed oblique
muscles from baseball. Yeah.
>> From the swinging and the rotation.
Correct. So I completely stopped
training them. So the only direct ab
training I do is rectus abdominis,
sagittal plane,
>> Correct. flexion work.
>> But if you're someone that wants to
build your obliques and you want your
obliques to look good, Yeah. I I say
still train them. Yep. And then this as
well does a bit of a Does a bit of
abdominal work as well. Absolutely.
Good.
I need to do more ab work, too.
Yeah, a little four. Bastard, that look
okay?
It looked great. Okay. I'll tell you
Okay, I'll give you some feedback. Yeah,
I love it. Any Any feedback. I think
that a lot of the times bodybuilders are
strong, right? A lot of people say
bodybuilders aren't strong. Uh size
doesn't matter, all of that. Um look at
the you know, the best powerlifters are
smaller than bodybuilders and they're
lifting more weight. And I say that's
because they are practicing low rep
ranges and they're practicing the
specific skill.
So Danila just said that What was the
rep range? 12 10 to 12?
>> Eight to 10. Eight
Eight to 10 rep range for a conventional
deadlift. Do you ever do low reps for
conventional deadlift? The lowest I've
done has been six. The lowest you've
done is six. And what's the most weight
you've done for that rep range? Six I
did
five and a quarter, which Yeah, okay. So
that's probably about 240 kg. Yeah. Uh
which for six reps, you know, I'll be
honest with you, I bet you there's reps
in reserve as well.
Yeah, a little bit, yeah. Little bit.
Okay, so must have been hard. Little
bit. Um it's still a decent weight, but
I often look at bodybuilders and I say
the work that they're doing is not
always about lifting the heaviest
weight. It's about stimulating muscle.
We're going to have a look at what he
does today and I'm going to assume that
there's going to be more in the tank.
However,
one thing that I think will make it
easier, you're not taking the slack out
of the bar. Mhm. Okay, so what I'm
seeing if you have a look at his first
repetition,
from zero to just banging it up off the
ground and you can see his body's
shaking. From zero to boom. Zero and and
he's kind of he rips it off the ground
and you can even hear it. So what I like
to say is So listen to this.
Uh
So listen to this, right?
One cue that I like to give is take the
noise out of the bar. So So
take the noise out and then when you
lift it up there should be no noise. But
you can take the noise out of the bar
without taking the slack out of the bar.
So the cues that I like to give is this.
I want to feel so stay there. Stay
there.
I want you to feel
tension like that before you lift. And I
want you to think about it like tension
on your arms, reach your head towards
the ceiling, and bend the bar slightly.
Once you're there, then the objective is
push the world away.
Let's try and do that. This is me
nitpicking the hell out of you. No, it's
fine. I want that.
>> you know I see it like I'm not teaching
like your objectively not trying to get
a one rep max. So it's like the rep work
it doesn't matter as much um because
it's easy regardless. However, this will
make it easier and I think that if it
was easy for you you'd add a little bit
more weight.
Uh and I think load is king. I think the
more weight you lift
the greater the potential for muscle
growth. So anyway, let's see.
This was smart.
Instead of adding weight and trying a
new technique
what I often say is earn the right to
add weight to the bar. So instead of
adding weight and trying something new
we're using the exact same weight.
Okay, so from here what I want you to
think about sitting in position
reach your head towards the ceiling,
reach it, bend the bar a little bit,
bend it. Now stand.
Out of position a little bit. Let's try
it again.
Feel the position stretch then stand.
Do it one more. Your hips are too low.
So So stretch, hips a bit higher, hips a
bit higher. Good. Now stand. Good.
Good.
Yeah, hell yeah.
So was he doing that?
>> that away from yesterday.
>> his eye position from start to finish.
That was a good call Maril. So that's
something that we like to teach is to
keep your eyes locked on the same spot
from start to finish. And quite often I
like to say pick a spot about 3 to 4 m
on the floor in front of you and I'll
often put something on the floor and
I'll say keep your head there. Now what
that means is when you're down in the
bottom position
your eyes are up here which means if you
look side view my head is slightly
extended. My neck is slightly extended.
But then when I when I lock out I'm
still eyes on the same spot. So my chin
is tucked at the lock out. Now what that
does is when a lot of people kind of
like look down at the bottom and then
they look up at the top they often
extend excessively
which is no good. And they're also
bending the knees. So
tucking the chin at the top, lock the
knees, and you're kind of nice and
vertical and you're not leaning back too
much.
>> wanted to ask you before you ended that
is cuz you hear a lot of people saying
cuz when you say keep your hips higher a
lot of I've seen a lot of people that
deadlift they try to sink their hips as
low as they can and they end
Interesting. So hips higher isn't a cue
that I give. If they're too low I'll say
hips higher. Or if they're too high I'll
say hips lower. So for you that's one
thing that I saw is
and this is another common thing you
think about when sorry common thing you
see when people are learning how to take
the slack out of the bar. Your focus
wasn't on position. Your focus was on
bending the bar here. But you sat too
low to do that. Right? So the next ones
were like no your hips are too low.
Watch this. When your hips are too low
I'll I'll I'll just demonstrate here.
When the hips are too low so the
barbell's in line with the midfoot. When
the hips are too low
you the shins push forward and it pushes
the barbell away from the center of your
base of support. So what you want to do
is sweet spot. So you were about here.
The bar's not going to leave the ground
in this position. Your hips have to get
out of the way.
So what we want to do is have the hips
in the exact sweet spot which isn't
actually high hips. It's hips just
right. Okay. Right. I'll do that again.
What's this way? Yeah, try it again.
So
the idea hips
So this is how low
All right. So check this out, right? How
low should the hips be in a deadlift?
For everybody it's different depending
on your
bo- bone length and your proportions,
right? The barbell needs to be for
everybody in line with the center of
your base of support which is your
midfoot. From here what I want you to do
is step a little bit further back. Just
a little bit further back.
Uh no a bit further forward. Come
forward. Come forward. Come forward.
Come forward so the bar's in line with
your midfoot. Now what you want to do is
bend the knees as much as you can until
the shins gently touch. From here don't
bend your hips lower than that but reach
your head towards the ceiling.
Head towards the ceiling. Armpits to
pelvis.
S- bend the bar and then push the world
away. Good. And again.
Armpits, head to ceiling, stretch, and
push. Excellent. Good.
That's the sweet spot for you. That's
the sweet spot. So you bend as much as
you can so your shins gently touch the
bar.
A- and that's as deep as your hips
should be.
It felt It felt better. It felt better
than the first time you had me adjust
it.
>> Exactly. And often when I say to someone
give me another rep
that's the problem with the deadlift
we're starting with the concentric. With
a squat and a bench press we start with
the eccentric. It puts us in a nice
position. But we are starting from zero
and we have to create tension from
nothing which is why the second
repetition is often easier than the
first. Are you considering this could be
a first top set?
Yes, depending on how it feels.
>> Yep. So Okay, right. So halfway you're
going to dictate off the first rep if
this is a set or not. Correct. Okay. And
if it is a set what reps? Eight? Eight
to 10, yeah. Okay. All right.
Okay, so bar over midfoot
sit into position, stretch, head to
ceiling.
Nice. Nice.
Good.
Yeah, good.
Beautiful. That is getting better, man.
Yeah, come
Five. Beautiful. Beautiful.
Six. Yeah, easy.
Seven.
Three to go.
Eight. Two more. Nice. Let's get it. Two
more.
Yeah.
Beautiful. Last one.
Easy. Nice. Yeah.
Yeah, bro.
They got better and better technically
which often happens with a deadlift. I
would say like by the third rep you're
in your groove. Yeah. For breathing when
you have reps like up to 10. Yeah. What
are your thoughts on that? You can't
hold your breath for all 10 reps, right?
No way. I only hold my breath. So that's
a great question and some of you may
have heard me say it before with my
bench press. I like to hold my breath
from the unrack
until the end of the last repetition.
But I'll only do that on the bench press
because I'm laying down in a bench
press. I never tell people to do that
while you're standing. You will
absolutely pass out. So I hold my breath
whenever you're moving. You're using
straps. So for me if I don't use straps
I'll take my brace here. I'll take a big
breath
and I'll brace from the top and then
I'll pick it up and then I'll
exhale at the top.
Right?
But you because you've strapped here you
have to strap up here then you go
exhale at the top and then you don't
need a belly full of air to drop the
weight. So Romanian deadlift you're
lowering the weight under control.
Conventional deadlift it's kind of just
a controlled drop. So I like to just say
hold your breath before you lift it
and then exhale at the top
and then
it's a controlled drop so it doesn't
matter. But then before you're about to
lift again
that's kind of what my breathing's like.
Now RDL
I'm kind of like this.
I'm kind of like
So you breathe in at the top.
Kind of like a squat.
No, no. Exactly like a squat.
Now
moment of truth Mr. 90 seconds.
How much How do you do 90 seconds on
this one?
We've talked about 90 seconds on this
one. I think that's a good advice.
>> Yes, I'll take a couple Yeah. I would
personally if I was to do a set of 10 on
a deadlift I'll be 8 minutes, bro. I'd
be 8 minutes. See I think I was a little
ambitious when I said 90 seconds.
So Say that again. I think I was
ambitious when I said 90 seconds for
compound movements.
>> there's a there's a difference between
upper body and lower body. Right. And
it's exercise specific. Yes. Yeah, yeah.
Deadlifts
I'd say out of deadlift, squat, and
bench deadlifts I take the longest rest.
>> For sure. Squats would be second. Yeah,
I'm with you on that one. I'm with you
on that one. So that means 10 minutes on
a deadlift, 9 minutes on a squat, 8
minutes on a bench. Is that right?
That's right, yeah. Yeah, I hear you
loud and clear.
Do you have also any accessory lower
than the If I'm going for a one rep max
on a deadlift I will.
But
this is something Bas can talk about,
too. A lot of people wear
lifting belts wrong. Is they wear it at
the belly button.
When in reality you want to actually
wear it a little bit higher. This is
what I thought was incorrect when I
first started training.
I thought you were supposed to put it at
your belly button. But
you do want to place it a little bit
higher right under your rib cage.
And
the problem is is majority of people
when they use a belt
the core stability is not as good and
they're trusting the belt to help them
with the weight. You still need to have
a stable core.
So I like using no belt.
I mean even up until my top set depends
on how I feel but I built
such a strong
core and lower back. I don't feel as if
I need to use one and like I said, if
it's
a very very heavy top set, I will just
for extra stability, but I'm still
keeping in mind the whole time to keep
my core tight. So, a lot of people will
put on the belt and then they
they let their core loose. That's where
you see injuries happen. I haven't seen
how you use a belt, but I know that
bodybuilders they even use a different
type of a belt. Correct. So, for a
powerlifter Bodybuilders don't use lever
belts. Right.
But often they will have the tapered
ones as well. So, it's
So, it's thick at the back and then it
tapers in at the front.
>> Correct. Whereas
I look at that and it's like that's not
the mechanism of a belt. It's not put it
on the back cuz you want to protect the
back. It's put it on the core because
you want those muscles to be pushing out
into the belt. So, to have a tapered
part on the belt kind of doesn't really
make sense. Right. Um so,
for me,
um this is how I like to use it. Do you
want to You don't want to use your belt
now, do you?
Um but the way that I would do it,
that's correct, is lower down here. A
lot of people put it lower. Yeah, but
because I think it's because they're
trying to put it around their back and
they don't think about the abs. So,
higher up in a position that's
comfortable to push into it. Yes. Yeah,
good. I agree. How often do you max out?
Oh man, I haven't I haven't maxed out in
years. I Maybe since I was 7
20 and that was 5 years ago. I did
Unless you're
If you're powerlifting
I think you should be, right? You should
be doing your one rep maxes see where
you are, but
a lot of gym pop people, you know,
obviously guys like to go to the gym and
they go, "Oh, that's one rep. It's going
to be so much fun." As guys, it's it's
fun to pick up a a ton of weight and
drop it or put on our backs and squat,
but
unless you're powerlifting, I don't
think doing one rep maxes is
beneficial and there's more risk to
injury unless you're doing it for comp
like a comp prep. But for me as a
bodybuilder especially
me one rep maxing would not be a smart
decision to do.
I'm loving seeing this.
Why?
He's my kind of guy.
He went from four plates
to five plates. He doesn't count, you
know, percentages and kilograms. It's
plate plate, yes. Yeah, so how much did
you do today? Well, I'm going to do five
of them. Yeah, I like that.
We don't put on 25s or fives. But don't
take
Do it Do as I say, not as I do. Same
with abs. If you guys are progressively
overloading proper properly
two and a halfs are very underrated.
Mhm.
I think a lot of people overlook them
especially when
say in a deadlift four plates, they
you know, got it for five reps.
Don't put a 10 on. You could put a five
maybe even, but if you can go up two and
a half pounds each side per week, that's
an extra 20 pounds at the end of the
month, which that's like
nine kilos around.
>> Yeah. And you can keep stacking those up
month after month and a lot of people
they don't take that into consideration
and they'll throw on a 25 and then they
they fail. lift. Yeah.
And they wonder why cuz it's it's too
much of a jump for them.
I knew he was strong when I saw those
quadriceps staring at me yesterday.
So, how many minutes rest is that been?
How many? Seven. Seven minutes? Okay.
Okay. That's good. I like that. I went
against my 90 second rule. Yeah. I am
going to start deadlifting again though.
I miss it. There you go. I miss doing
it. Love that. I know
deadlift coach Yeah. Yeah, same.
Let's switch on for this, brother.
Let's go.
Yes! Nice! Let's go. Come on. You're in
the groove now. Yes! NICE! COME ON. YES!
COME ON.
PUSH. UP!
GO DEEP. THREE! LET'S GET IT, BROTHER.
LET'S GET IT. COME ON.
GO DEEP. UP!
FOUR! YEAH! COME ON. COME ON.
GO DEEP. YES! YES! YES! YES! YES! NICE
WORK! COME ON.
LAST ONE. LAST ONE. LAST ONE. YES! YES!
YES! BEAUTIFUL! NICE WORK! YEAH. PUSH.
NICE, MAN. NICE! YEAH, BRO.
No changing of technique from the first
to second. Little bit slower. Wow.
Little bit slower, but uh that was the
That was the perfect body position from
start to finish. Nice. Nice. Look at
that.
You're so strong.
Nice to see bodybuilder deadlifting.
To build muscles.
Good man. Good man. That got very heavy.
I don't know how heavy that looked.
This is how you know if you deadlift
right is if your
legs are red afterwards.
Oh yeah, thanks.
I feel good.
I missed deadlifting.
That was nice.
Oh yeah, I'm
I'm going to
I'll finish off on
some rows and some pull downs.
I'll do some huh
We'll go and do cable rows and super set
them with pull downs. So, next exercise
we're doing seated cable rows. Yes.
What's your favorite grip position for
this? Cuz I've got a few of these
different handles. Yeah, yeah.
The one I usually use, I'll either go
straight bar
or I'll do the straight
>> bar? Well, that's Okay, so that's
similar to the mag So, that's that's
pronated, this is neutral and this is
supinated. We'll do the neutral cuz it's
more like me. Yeah.
Neutral's fine. Great. So, As long as
you're able to get a lot of elbow drive,
that's all I really care about the row.
>> And that's the thing I think a lot of
people don't realize is
you can target different parts of your
back just based off of your grip. Yep.
Cuz you can do more of a
If you go pronated, neutral versus
supinated
you're going to feel a difference. For a
lot for a lot of people when they do
supinated grip, they end up getting more
bicep involved cuz they're not doing it
properly.
>> Yep. So, a lot of my clients I'll
program just a pronated or a neutral
grip. Pronated or neutral is your
preference, yeah.
To take the biceps out of the equation.
>> Mhm. Let's see how you row.
Mhm.
I like that.
You know, that reminds me
of the way that Arnold Schwarzenegger
rows.
And I've had a few people that have
asked me, um I don't quite move that
far. Okay. I I move a little bit, um but
I I look at it and it's like, yeah,
sometimes I go further, sometimes I I'm
more rigid.
>> Right. Um and I kind of consider them
slightly different to each other. I
don't think either are right or wrong,
but what are your thoughts on that? What
are you trying to achieve? I don't think
there's anything right or wrong. It's
kind of the same thing with the
pullovers. Yeah. I'm letting that weight
pull me as much as I can Mhm. while
still I still want to keep my shoulders
in a good position to not
reach so far over to where then my
shoulders are rotating over. Let me do a
set. Yeah, yeah.
I think
the way Arnold did his rows is
completely fine. Yep. Cuz again, he's
keeping that lower lumbar spine in a
straight neutral position. He's not
letting that round out.
>> Yeah.
We can even see bass has very thick
erectors, too. Can you say that again?
You have thick erectors.
>> Thank you.
Which is from all those heavy squats and
and deadlifts and everything, but you
can see
his lower back still stays straight.
It's fine if you're going to If if you
have that roundness in your upper back
with rowing, it's not a problem.
The issue is is once you let that core
stability go, you're going to see it in
the in your lower back.
Excuse me.
Wouldn't you agree, too, with the core
stability? As soon as that core goes,
that's when you see the lower back Yeah.
pop out.
>> the thing that I saw with you is
the swinging
and there's intentional movement. Right.
So, you're not doing letting momentum do
anything here. You're controlling the
weight up and down. Right. And that's
what I liked about it. It's like Yeah,
you can see the muscles doing the work
rather than momentum. Yes. And I think
it's important for
everyone's going to go through that
phase where they just like to throw
around some weight, but if there's no
intention behind the movement that
you're doing, you're not going to get as
much out of it as you want.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
So, are you thinking of a specific
muscle contraction while you're doing
this?
These I'm
similar to pullovers where I'm just
letting the weight pull me. And as soon
as I come back
I like to think about as much elbow
drive as I can get. When I want to my
lats are wrapped on the front, I'm
thinking of trying to pull them back
Yep. as hard as I can. So, what's the
biggest target muscle?
These I like to get more mid back, mid
into lower lats. Yep. And then if you
want to hit more upper back, you can
always do a higher row. So, I do that
straight bar, you can pull a higher row
or do a chest supported
>> so where would you say your elbows are
landing here when you're pulling it?
Elbows So, so you're saying high rows my
upper back
>> High rows my upper
back or don't trap Yep. versus when I'm
pulling here I'm getting my lats
>> is pretty tucked. Correct. Yeah, okay.
[Applause]
Mhm.
You know, I like I'll tell you what I
like about whenever I see Danilo doing
his sets, he kind of finishes with a a
partial or two, right?
>> Mhm.
Yeah, so it's like If you don't have a
training partner
I just stop. If you don't have a
training partner to help you finish the
last couple reps. That's That's your
forced reps. Yes. Yeah. Mhm.
Up.
I was going to say a cue that I like is
I always tell my clients to pull the
belly button.
Pull to the belly button.
>> Yeah. That helps them a lot.
>> is in the handle to the belly button
here. Okay. I like that cue. That's the
same with me in the bench. It's like
when I want to control where the elbows
tuck, I'll tell them where I want to
touch the body with the barbell. Yep.
So, same thing. To keep the elbows
tucked, hit the belly button.
And then when we're doing a high
pull, pull it almost like right
mid-level to you.
>> higher up on the pecs.
Uh that's a good one. Uh we'll do
another set of that.
>> Yeah. Um and then what we're going to do
is
we're going to be done for the day. Um
so, we'll do how many more sets? One?
One more. One more. One more set. All
right, let's get into it. Anyway,
um
Danilo, before you go, where can my
audience find you if they want to look
you up and see how shredded you are?
Instagram is @danilosuperback. Same with
my YouTube and TikTok. It's the same
cross-platform. Awesome. Go give this
guy a like, a follow, and all that
stuff. And if you want to see more
content like this,
let me know in the comment section.
Click like, subscribe, and I'll see you
next time. Thank you, brother.
Appreciate you. Of course.